in the current age we have countless
options to flee from our psychological
problems substances sex food gambling
you name it and if these don't do it we
can get a doctor to prescribe medication
for us the problem is that these are
just temporary fixes that mute the
symptoms to a certain degree that more
often than not returned in full force
luckily there are ways to fix ourselves
or more specifically fix the self so we
can be liberated from the chains of
neurosis and reach our full potential in
this video I would like to talk about
psychological ideas and methods to gain
self-knowledge and turn that into self
realization
[Music]
Karen horney was a neo Freudian
psychoanalyst who saw neurosis as the
main obstacle in the process of
self-realization in order to live up to
our full potential we must overcome our
neurosis and therefore face our existing
mental conflicts that block us from
genuine personal development the word
neurosis however is rarely used in
modern psychology nonetheless
we can't speak of symptoms that are
involved with neurosis like anxiety
depression irritability obsessive
compulsive disorders or different
phobias neuroses can be summarized as a
structurally ineffective way to handle
life's problems
horn I saw it as a distorted way of
looking at the world and oneself which
leads to a set of compulsive needs that
prevent a person from experiencing the
world in a genuine way according to horn
I a healthy person strives for
self-realization a transformation that
requires a realistic view of one's own
potential and matching goals to reach
that potential Swiss psychiatrist Carl
Jung also held self-realization in high
regard believing that this process also
called individuation is the main goal in
life a neurotic person however is so
preoccupied with compulsive ineffective
coping mechanisms that there's no room
left for true self-realization so before
we move on to the methods to turn
neuroses into self-realization
let's take a look at the following
question how does one become neurotic
horan I observed that neuroticism stems
from childhood experiences at the basis
of the formation of our personalities
like social as well as cultural
conditions for example as children we
need a certain amount of affection
security love etc to develop into quote
unquote healthy individuals that don't
exhibit an extreme reliance on coping
mechanisms when these aren't met in
childhood this can lead to what horn I
called basic hostility and basic anxiety
these conditions will dominate the ways
in
which the affected individuals deal with
their daily lives let's talk about these
negative coping mechanisms and the so
called neurotic needs in our lifetime we
develop several coping mechanisms when
it comes to dealing with people these
mechanisms can be subdivided into three
categories according to hone I also
known as the three neurotic trends one
moving towards people two moving against
people three moving away from people
these mechanisms are normal everyone
uses them to some degree problems arise
when someone over uses these coping
strategies which indicates that that
person is neurotic repeating the same
unproductive coping strategies over and
over again leads to a vicious cycle in
the book self-analysis Horner identified
a series of so-called neurotic needs
that all belong in one of the three
categories of coping mechanisms one of
these neurotic needs is the need for
affection and approval which belongs in
the category moving towards people
there's nothing wrong with needing
affection and approval to some degree
but the neurotic craves it in a
self-destructive way individuals with
this need are extremely sensitive to
criticism and rejection and make people
pleasing and being liked the center of
their world of course this leaves them
open to exploitation and abuse the root
of this need is anxiety the fear of
being excluded or being alone the
neurotic need for power belongs in the
category moving against people power
seekers are moving against others in
order to gain control they often need to
compete exploit and defeat in order to
change the environment to their favor
they very much fear things like
helplessness incompetence worthlessness
violation and this fear enforces their
need for control self protection and
achievement moving away from people can
manifest in an extreme need for
self-preservation and an unrealistic
desire for independence a neurotic need
that belongs to this category is the
need for self sufficiency
and independence individuals with this
need than to distance themselves from
other people as a way to decrease the
chances of being hurt these are the
typical loner types now there's nothing
wrong with solitude and spending time
alone can be a great vessel towards
personal growth however excessive
isolation may be a sign of neuroticism
according to horn I the reason why
neurotic people are stuck when it comes
to self-realization is that they have a
mental block caused by a need for
perfection for the neurotic self
realization means the actualization of
their ideal self this perfection
manifests in the three neurotic trends
the perfectionist that moves towards
people will behave as overly compliant
and as a people pleaser in return for
being liked the problem with this
behavior is that we cannot control the
world around us as the Stoics would
emphasize including what people think so
it's impossible to be liked by everyone
the perfectionist that moves against
people searches for glory even if this
is at the expense of other people they
want to be at the top to be admired and
to be the best all the time but glory is
just temporary even if we reach the top
it's just a matter of time before we get
replaced also admiration by other people
is beyond our control
moreover if we let our self-worth depend
on external validation we are in a very
unstable position the perfectionist that
moves away from people wants to be wise
and self sufficient in ways that are
almost superhuman this is an impossible
goal to reach because in many ways we
are dependent on and intertwined with
the world around us no man is an island
in many situations we need support from
others or need to work together to move
forward neurotics experienced a big gap
between their real self and their ideal
self which is almost impossible to
bridge therefore these individuals set
unrealistic goals followed by consistent
failure they are stuck in a vicious
cycle which can very well
together with a victim mentality and a
lack of responsibility for one's own
predicament in order to escape the
vicious cycle truthfulness about one's
potential is essential I quote man by
his very nature and of his own accord
strives towards a self-realization and
that his set of values evolves from such
striving apparently he cannot for
example develop his full human
potentialities unless he is truthful to
himself unless he is active and
productive unless he relates himself to
others in the spirit of mutuality
apparently he cannot grow if he indulges
in a quote unquote
dark idolatry of self and consistently
attributes all his own shortcomings to
the deficiencies of others he can grow
in the true sense only if he assumes
responsibility for himself
end quote now I would like to propose a
few practical steps towards
self-realization based on the previous
part of the video 1 discovering who you
are the logical first step of
self-realization is the determination of
the real current self in all honesty and
detail people with neuroses are often in
denial and their false pride and
cognitive dissonance block their view of
who they truly are it's impossible to
self realize without a self-acceptance
and it's impossible to accept oneself if
one refuses to see who he or she truly
is as horan I states and I quote if a
person has had sufficient courage to
discover an unpleasant truth about
himself one may safely trust his courage
to be strong enough to carry him through
and quote luckily there are many ways to
gain self-knowledge and we could work
together with a therapist or engage in
self therapy to achieve this a Carl Jung
based personality test named the big
five can give us insight and traits like
neuroticism and introversion a union
method named shadow work is aimed at
discovering unwanted characteristics
that linger in the unconscious there's
also meditation and journaling that can
help
to become more aware of our bodily
sensations and thought processes another
method used in modern psychology is the
Enneagram of personality which is a
nine-fold system of different
personalities along with their
weaknesses basic emotions ego fixations
at etc even though none of these methods
are perfect they can be great guides for
gaining self-knowledge and determining
our personalities in the process of
self-discovery
the neurotics may come to the conclusion
that their idea of self strongly
deviates from reality and that the
pursuit of the idealized self does more
harm than good only if we are truthful
and accepting of our behavior including
the things that block our growth we can
proceed with the next step I quote
briefly he must overcome all those needs
drives or attitudes which obstruct his
growth only when he begins to relinquish
his illusions about himself and his
illusionary goals
has he a chance to find his real
potentialities and to develop them only
to the extent to which he gives up his
false pride he can become less hostile
to himself and evolve a solid self
confidence only as his shoots lose their
coercive power can he discover his real
feelings wishes beliefs and ideals only
when he faces his existing conflicts has
he the chance for a real integration and
so forth and quote the second step is
creating the right circumstances when we
have gained sufficient knowledge about
our personalities we can start to
determine the right circumstances for
personal growth according to the ancient
Stoics the end goal eudaimonia which
means flourishing is only achieved when
we live in accordance with nature with
nature they mean our own nature and the
nature of the universe by gaining
self-knowledge we learn about our
individual nature how this relates to
the world and what the ideal
circumstances are in order for us to
flourish for example an introverted and
observer type of personality can
flourish in solitude and an extrovert
can flourish in more social settings
another example are people that are high
in openness and high in neuroticism that
will optimally realize their creativity
when they increase their
conscientiousness in practice this means
an emphasis on order and structure
lastly it is important to aim for the
right things from a Daoist point of view
we may want to choose to swim along with
the river stream in other words take the
path of least resistance that fits our
nature best this does not mean taking a
path of mediocrity it means that we
excel in the traits we already possess
it is more convenient to emphasize our
strengths then consequently trying to
repair ourselves and to fundamentally
change who we are however oftentimes it
is recommended to develop traits that we
are not naturally inclined towards
people that are neurotic ly inclined to
hide from others may want to develop
social skills people that are inclined
to exploit and dominate others for their
own gain may want to develop compassion
and humility there's no way that suits
everyone part of self-realization is
forging our own unique path and not
walking existing ones I quote horn I to
find a mountain path all by oneself
gives a greater feeling of strength than
to take a path that is shown and quote
self-realization often means facing our
fears changing our habits breaking
patterns and making mistakes along the
way we can choose a path of mediocrity
and security and proceed walking the
same path over and over again knowing
that it won't lead us anywhere this is
the safe route yes but it will also lead
to self-hatred in the end rightfully so
Carl Jung called this the road of death
I quote there's no guarantee not for a
single moment that we will not fall into
error and stumble into deadly peril we
may think there is a sure Road but that
would be the road of death then nothing
happens any longer at any rate not the
right things anyone who takes the sure
road is as good as dead
thank you for watching
[Music]
you